Rtrieu/docs 5250 mobile session replay (#18440)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/real_user_monitoring/session_replay/mobile/setup_and_configuration.md

---
title: Mobile Session Replay Setup and Configuration
kind: documentation
description: Setting up and configuring Mobile Session Replay.
aliases:
further_reading:
    - link: '/real_user_monitoring/session_replay/mobile'
      tag: Documentation
      text: Mobile Session Replay
    - link: '/real_user_monitoring/session_replay/mobile/app_performance'
      tag: Documentation
      text: How Mobile Session Replay Impacts App Performance
    - link: '/real_user_monitoring/session_replay/mobile/privacy_options'
      tag: Documentation
      text: Mobile Session Replay Privacy Options
    - link: '/real_user_monitoring/session_replay/mobile/troubleshooting'
      tag: Documentation
      text: Troubleshoot Mobile Session Replay
    - link: '/real_user_monitoring/session_replay'
      tag: Documentation
      text: Session Replay
---

## Setup

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Android" %}}

All Session Replay SDK versions can be found in the [Maven Snapshots Repository][1].

To set up Mobile Session Replay for Android:

1. Make sure you've [setup and initialized the Datadog Android RUM SDK][2] with views instrumentation enabled.

> 2. Import Datadog Session Replay dependency.

Author: @mariusc83 Just wanted to check because it's not clear to me what this is. Is this a single file? Is it obvious what it is and how to find it after initializing the Android RUM SDK?

```suggestion
2. Import any Datadog Session Replay dependencies.
```

Author: Or is this what you meant?

```suggestion
2. Declare Datadog Session Replay as a [dependency](https://docs.datadoghq.com/real_user_monitoring/android/?tab=kotlin#declare-the-sdk-as-a-dependency).
```

3. Enable Session Replay in your app:

{{< code-block lang="kotlin" filename="build.gradle" disable_copy="false" collapsible="true" >}}
val sessionReplayConfig = SessionReplayConfiguration.Builder([sampleRate])
 // in case you need material extension support
 .addExtensionSupport(MaterialExtensionSupport()) 
 .build()

> val sessionReplayFeature = SessionReplayFeature(sessionReplayConfig)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Datadog.registerFeature(sessionReplayFeature)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SessionReplay.enable(sessionReplayConfig)
```

---
title: Setup and Configuration
kind: documentation
description: Describes how to setup and configure Mobile Session Replay
aliases:
further_reading:
    - link: '/real_user_monitoring/session_replay/mobile'
      tag: Documentation
      text: Mobile Session Replay
    - link: '/real_user_monitoring/session_replay'
      tag: Documentation
      text: Session Replay
---

## Setup

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Android" %}}

All Session Replay SDK versions can be found in the [Maven Snapshots Repository][1].

1. Make sure you've [setup and initialized the Datadog Android RUM SDK][2].
2. In order to use the SNAPSHOTS in your Gradle dependencies, add this repository as a source in your repository configuration in your `build.gradle` file:

>    {{< code-block lang="javascript" filename="build.gradle" disable_copy="false" collapsible="true" >}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   {{< code-block lang="groovy" filename="build.gradle" disable_copy="false" collapsible="true" >}}
```

             implementation 'com.datadoghq:dd-sdk-android-session-replay:1.19.0-sr-beta1-SNAPSHOT'
             implementation 'com.datadoghq:dd-sdk-android-session-replay-material:1.19.0-sr-beta1-SNAPSHOT' // in case you need material support

          }
   ```

3. Once the DD SDK and Session Replay SDK dependencies are imported, you can enable the feature when configuring the SDK:
   ```kotlin
      val config = Configuration.Builder(
         logsEnabled = true,
         tracesEnabled = true,
         crashReportsEnabled = true,
         rumEnabled = true
      )
      ...
      .build()

      ...

      Datadog.initialize(context, credentials, config, trackingConsent) 
      val sessionReplayConfig = SessionReplayConfiguration.Builder()
         // in case you need material extension support
         .addExtensionSupport(MaterialExtensionSupport()) 
         .build()
      val sessionReplayFeature = SessionReplayFeature(sessionReplayConfig)
      Datadog.registerFeature(sessionReplayFeature)
   ```

[1]: https://oss.sonatype.org/content/repositories/snapshots/com/datadoghq/dd-sdk-android/
[2]: /real_user_monitoring/android/?tab=kotlin

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "iOS" %}}

> 

Reviewer 3: placeholder: we'll need to add a link to the V2 docs as the intro for getting started, right @mariusc83 ?

Reviewer 3: for both iOS and android setup

Reviewer: @jamiemilstein exactly and this is the reason I mentioned above that we need to remove the part in the code snippets that explains how you first initialize the SDK

Reviewer: these links were added by @rtrieu at line 33 above when she explains that you need to setup RUM first.

**Note**: When installing Session Replay for iOS, instead of using Git tags, the library needs to be fetched directly from the [`session-replay-beta`][1] branch.

> ### Installation with CocoaPods

Reviewer 3: @ncreated do we need to have instructions for Carthage as well?

        )
        .trackUIKitRUMViews()
        .trackUIKitRUMActions()
        .build()
)

Global.rum = RUMMonitor.initialize()

// enable Session Replay:
let configuration = SessionReplayConfiguration(privacy: .maskAll)
sessionReplay = SessionReplay.initialize(with: configuration)
sessionReplay.start()
```

[1]: https://github.com/DataDog/dd-sdk-ios/tree/session-replay-beta
[2]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/real_user_monitoring/ios/?tab=swift
[3]: https://github.com/DataDog/dd-sdk-ios

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Additional configuration

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Android" %}}
### Update the sample rate for recorded sessions to appear
Beginning with v1.20.0, the recorder sessions are sampled, and the default sample rate is 0 (meaning that no sessions are recorded). To ensure that you have some recorded sessions in your dashboard, you have to explicitly set the desired sample rate in the configuration:

{{< code-block lang="java" filename="build.gradle" disable_copy="false" collapsible="true" >}}

val sessionReplayConfig = SessionReplayConfiguration.Builder()
 ...
.setSessionReplaySampleRate([YOUR_SAMPLE_RATE_HERE])
.build()

{{< /code-block >}}

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "iOS" %}}

> 

Reviewer 3: can we add the snippets here (like we have for android) that have how to adjust the sample rate @ncreated ?

---
title: Mobile Session Replay Setup and Configuration
kind: documentation
description: Describes how to setup and configure Mobile Session Replay
aliases:
further_reading:
    - link: '/real_user_monitoring/session_replay/mobile'
      tag: Documentation
      text: Mobile Session Replay
    - link: '/real_user_monitoring/session_replay/mobile/app_performance'
      tag: Documentation
      text: How Mobile Session Replay Impacts App Performance
    - link: '/real_user_monitoring/session_replay/mobile/privacy_options'
      tag: Documentation
      text: Mobile Session Replay Privacy Options
    - link: '/real_user_monitoring/session_replay/mobile/troubleshooting'
      tag: Documentation
      text: Troubleshoot Mobile Session Replay
    - link: '/real_user_monitoring/session_replay'
      tag: Documentation
      text: Session Replay
---

## Setup

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Android" %}}

All Session Replay SDK versions can be found in the [Maven Snapshots Repository][1].

To set up Mobile Session Replay for Android:

> 1. Make sure you've [setup and initialized the Datadog Android RUM SDK][2].

Reviewer: We need to mention here that they need to enable the view/action RUM tracking strategies for Session Replay to work.

Reviewer 4: View tracking is minimal requirement. Actions - not necessarily.

Author: @mariusc83 Can you specify where and how to enable this setting? Feel free to make a code suggestion!

Author: Or is it enough to say:

```suggestion
1. Make sure you've [setup and initialized the Datadog Android RUM SDK][2] with views instrumentation enabled.
```

The following snippet illustrates a basic example in `AppDelegate.swift`:

```swift
import Datadog
import DatadogSessionReplay

var sessionReplay: SessionReplayController!

// enable RUM SDK:
Datadog.initialize(
    appContext: .init(),
    trackingConsent: .granted,
    configuration: Datadog.Configuration
        .builderUsing(
            rumApplicationID: "<rum-application-id>",
            clientToken: "<client-token>",
            environment: "<environment>"
        )
        .trackUIKitRUMViews()
        .trackUIKitRUMActions()
        .build()
)

Global.rum = RUMMonitor.initialize()

// enable Session Replay:
let configuration = SessionReplayConfiguration(privacy: .maskAll)
sessionReplay = SessionReplay.initialize(with: configuration)
sessionReplay.start()
```

[1]: https://github.com/DataDog/dd-sdk-ios/tree/session-replay-beta
[2]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/real_user_monitoring/ios/?tab=swift
[3]: https://github.com/DataDog/dd-sdk-ios

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Additional configuration
### Update the sample rate for recorded sessions to appear

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Android" %}}

> Beginning with v1.20.0, the default sample rate is 0 (meaning that no sessions are recorded). To ensure that you have some recorded sessions in your dashboard, you have to explicitly set the desired sample rate in the configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Beginning with v1.19.0, the default sample rate is 0 (meaning that no sessions are recorded). To ensure that you have some recorded sessions in your dashboard, you have to explicitly set the desired sample rate in the configuration:
```

{{< code-block lang="java" filename="build.gradle" disable_copy="false" collapsible="true" >}}

val sessionReplayConfig = SessionReplayConfiguration.Builder([sampleRate])
 ...
.build()

{{< /code-block >}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "iOS" %}}

This configuration option is not available for iOS.

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Validate whether Session Replay data is being sent

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Android" %}}

> This configuration option is not available for Android.

Author: @mariusc83 is there a code snippet available for this config option?

Reviewer: Datadog.setVerbosity(Log.DEBUG)

aliases:
further_reading:
    - link: '/real_user_monitoring/session_replay/mobile'
      tag: Documentation
      text: Mobile Session Replay
    - link: '/real_user_monitoring/session_replay/mobile/app_performance'
      tag: Documentation
      text: How Mobile Session Replay Impacts App Performance
    - link: '/real_user_monitoring/session_replay/mobile/privacy_options'
      tag: Documentation
      text: Mobile Session Replay Privacy Options
    - link: '/real_user_monitoring/session_replay/mobile/troubleshooting'
      tag: Documentation
      text: Troubleshoot Mobile Session Replay
    - link: '/real_user_monitoring/session_replay'
      tag: Documentation
      text: Session Replay
---

## Setup

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Android" %}}

All Session Replay SDK versions can be found in the [Maven Snapshots Repository][1].

To set up Mobile Session Replay for Android:

1. Make sure you've [setup and initialized the Datadog Android RUM SDK][2] with views instrumentation enabled.

2. Once the Datadog SDK and Session Replay SDK dependencies are imported, you can enable the feature when configuring the SDK:
   ```kotlin
      val config = Configuration.Builder(

>          logsEnabled = true,

Reviewer: Like I mentioned in previous comment above, this part should not longer be here as we already mention it at point 1 that we should first enable RUM.

         tracesEnabled = true,
         crashReportsEnabled = true,
         rumEnabled = true
      )
      ...
      .build()

      ...

>       Datadog.initialize(context, credentials, config, trackingConsent) 

Reviewer: Also this `Datadog.initialize` line should be removed

---
title: Mobile Session Replay Setup and Configuration
kind: documentation

> description: Describes how to setup and configure Mobile Session Replay

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
description: Setting up and configuring Mobile Session Replay.
```

      ...

      Datadog.initialize(context, credentials, config, trackingConsent) 
      val sessionReplayConfig = SessionReplayConfiguration.Builder([sampleRate])
         // in case you need material extension support
         .addExtensionSupport(MaterialExtensionSupport()) 
         .build()
      val sessionReplayFeature = SessionReplayFeature(sessionReplayConfig)
      Datadog.registerFeature(sessionReplayFeature)
   ```

[1]: https://oss.sonatype.org/content/repositories/snapshots/com/datadoghq/dd-sdk-android/
[2]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/real_user_monitoring/android/?tab=kotlin

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "iOS" %}}

You can install Mobile Session Replay with either CocoaPods or Swift Package Manager.

**Note**: When installing Session Replay for iOS, instead of using Git tags, the library needs to be fetched directly from the [`session-replay-beta`][1] branch.

### Installation with CocoaPods

1. Make sure you've [set up and initialized the Datadog iOS RUM SDK][2] with views instrumentation enabled.

2. Link both RUM and Session Replay SDKs using git branches in `Podfile` and run `pod install` (or `pod update` if you're upgrading from an existing installation):

   ```ruby

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

     pod 'DatadogSDK', :git => 'https://github.com/DataDog/dd-sdk-ios.git', :branch => 'session-replay-beta'
     pod 'DatadogSDKSessionReplay', :git => 'https://github.com/DataDog/dd-sdk-ios.git', :branch => 'session-replay-beta'

   ```

> 3. To verify installation, check `Podfile.lock`. Both pods should list the same version. For example:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
3. To verify installation, check `Podfile.lock`. Both pods list the same version. For example:
```

The following snippet illustrates a basic example in `AppDelegate.swift`:

```swift
import Datadog
import DatadogSessionReplay

var sessionReplay: SessionReplayController!

// enable RUM SDK:
Datadog.initialize(
    appContext: .init(),
    trackingConsent: .granted,
    configuration: Datadog.Configuration
        .builderUsing(
            rumApplicationID: "<rum-application-id>",
            clientToken: "<client-token>",
            environment: "<environment>"
        )
        .trackUIKitRUMViews()
        .trackUIKitRUMActions()
        .build()
)

Global.rum = RUMMonitor.initialize()

// enable Session Replay:
let configuration = SessionReplayConfiguration(privacy: .maskAll)
sessionReplay = SessionReplay.initialize(with: configuration)
sessionReplay.start()
```

[1]: https://github.com/DataDog/dd-sdk-ios/tree/session-replay-beta
[2]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/real_user_monitoring/ios/?tab=swift
[3]: https://github.com/DataDog/dd-sdk-ios

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Additional configuration
### Update the sample rate for recorded sessions to appear

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Android" %}}

> Beginning with v1.19.0, the default sample rate is 0 (meaning that no sessions are recorded). To ensure that you have some recorded sessions in your dashboard, you have to explicitly set the desired sample rate in the configuration:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Beginning with v1.19.0, the default sample rate is 0 (meaning that no sessions are recorded). To ensure that you have some recorded sessions in your dashboard, set the desired sample rate in the configuration:
```

{{< code-block lang="java" filename="build.gradle" disable_copy="false" collapsible="true" >}}

val sessionReplayConfig = SessionReplayConfiguration.Builder([sampleRate])
 ...
.build()

{{< /code-block >}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "iOS" %}}

This configuration option is not available for iOS.

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Validate whether Session Replay data is being sent

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Android" %}}

{{< code-block lang="java" filename="build.gradle" disable_copy="false" collapsible="true" >}}
Datadog.setVerbosity(Log.DEBUG)
{{< /code-block >}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "iOS" %}}

> To validate whether Session Replay data is being sent from the app, enable the `Datadog.verbosityLevel = .debug` option. If everything works correctly, you should see following logs in the Xcode console soon (about 30 seconds) after launching the application:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
To validate whether Session Replay data is being sent from the app, enable the `Datadog.verbosityLevel = .debug` option. The following logs display in the Xcode console soon (about 30 seconds) after launching the application:
```

---
title: Mobile Session Replay Setup and Configuration
kind: documentation
description: Describes how to setup and configure Mobile Session Replay
aliases:
further_reading:
    - link: '/real_user_monitoring/session_replay/mobile'
      tag: Documentation
      text: Mobile Session Replay
    - link: '/real_user_monitoring/session_replay/mobile/app_performance'
      tag: Documentation
      text: How Mobile Session Replay Impacts App Performance
    - link: '/real_user_monitoring/session_replay/mobile/privacy_options'
      tag: Documentation
      text: Mobile Session Replay Privacy Options
    - link: '/real_user_monitoring/session_replay/mobile/troubleshooting'
      tag: Documentation
      text: Troubleshoot Mobile Session Replay
    - link: '/real_user_monitoring/session_replay'
      tag: Documentation
      text: Session Replay
---

## Setup

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Android" %}}

All Session Replay SDK versions can be found in the [Maven Snapshots Repository][1].

To set up Mobile Session Replay for Android:

1. Make sure you've [setup and initialized the Datadog Android RUM SDK][2].

> 2. In order to use the SNAPSHOTS in your Gradle dependencies, add this repository as a source in your repository configuration in your `build.gradle` file:

Reviewer: we do not need this line anymore about the SNAPSHOTS

   ```kotlin

>      repositories {

Reviewer: you do not need the `repositories` block anymore

          maven {
           url ="https://oss.sonatype.org/content/repositories/snapshots"
          }
          }

          dependencies {

>              implementation 'com.datadoghq:dd-sdk-android:1.19.0-sr-beta1-SNAPSHOT'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
             implementation 'com.datadoghq:dd-sdk-android-core:2.0.0'
             implementation 'com.datadoghq:dd-sdk-android-rum:2.0.0'
```

>              implementation 'com.datadoghq:dd-sdk-android-session-replay:1.19.0-sr-beta1-SNAPSHOT'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
             implementation 'com.datadoghq:dd-sdk-android-session-replay:2.0.0'
```

>              implementation 'com.datadoghq:dd-sdk-android-session-replay-material:1.19.0-sr-beta1-SNAPSHOT' // in case you need material support

Reviewer: ```suggestion
             implementation 'com.datadoghq:dd-sdk-android-session-replay-material:2.0.0  // in case you need material support
```

          }
   ```

3. Once the DD SDK and Session Replay SDK dependencies are imported, you can enable the feature when configuring the SDK:
   ```kotlin

>       val config = Configuration.Builder(

Reviewer: we need to remove this part as this is related with the old way of initializing the SDK. For sdkv2 we have the new docs that will be available by Dash.

Reviewer 3: removed

Reviewer 3: can you update this section to reflect the new way? and in any where that is applicable, link to the new docs?

Reviewer: I am not sure it will be required 🤔 . By the time people will reach to this docs the new docs about the SDK v2 initialization should be in place. Meaning that users will have to go first through those, initialize the SDK and then initialize the new SR feature. I will check with the team and maybe provide the link to new docs here.

         logsEnabled = true,
         tracesEnabled = true,
         crashReportsEnabled = true,
         rumEnabled = true
      )
      ...
      .build()

      ...

      Datadog.initialize(context, credentials, config, trackingConsent) 

>       val sessionReplayConfig = SessionReplayConfiguration.Builder()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      val sessionReplayConfig = SessionReplayConfiguration.Builder([sampleRate])
```

         // in case you need material extension support
         .addExtensionSupport(MaterialExtensionSupport()) 
         .build()
      val sessionReplayFeature = SessionReplayFeature(sessionReplayConfig)
      Datadog.registerFeature(sessionReplayFeature)
   ```

> [1]: https://oss.sonatype.org/content/repositories/snapshots/com/datadoghq/dd-sdk-android/

Reviewer: we remove this link

    configuration: Datadog.Configuration
        .builderUsing(
            rumApplicationID: "<rum-application-id>",
            clientToken: "<client-token>",
            environment: "<environment>"
        )
        .trackUIKitRUMViews()
        .trackUIKitRUMActions()
        .build()
)

Global.rum = RUMMonitor.initialize()

// enable Session Replay:
let configuration = SessionReplayConfiguration(privacy: .maskAll)
sessionReplay = SessionReplay.initialize(with: configuration)
sessionReplay.start()
```

[1]: https://github.com/DataDog/dd-sdk-ios/tree/session-replay-beta
[2]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/real_user_monitoring/ios/?tab=swift
[3]: https://github.com/DataDog/dd-sdk-ios

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Additional configuration
### Update the sample rate for recorded sessions to appear

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Android" %}}

Beginning with v1.20.0, the default sample rate is 0 (meaning that no sessions are recorded). To ensure that you have some recorded sessions in your dashboard, you have to explicitly set the desired sample rate in the configuration:

{{< code-block lang="java" filename="build.gradle" disable_copy="false" collapsible="true" >}}

> val sessionReplayConfig = SessionReplayConfiguration.Builder()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
val sessionReplayConfig = SessionReplayConfiguration.Builder([sampleRate])
```

 ...

> .setSessionReplaySampleRate([YOUR_SAMPLE_RATE_HERE])

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
